# 6809 Code Snippets

This section includes various snippets of code I have either developed or used in working with the 6809 and 6309 microprocessors.

* **rscrll** - This is a small machine language subroutine that can be used on the Tandy Color Computer to provide a "reverse scroll" function. The .asm file has the assembly language code and the .bas is a commented version of a BASIC program generated by LWASM to POKE the routine into memory. Note that BASIC needs to reserve space for the machine language routine. The routine should be relocatable without change.

**random** - This short routine returns a psydo random number sequence. It produces a 16 bit result and each of 2^16 possible results is obtained once and only once before it repeats the sequence. It is not relocatable without tailoring the code to a specific application.

# And the fine print...

The code included is a mix of things I have developed and things I have adopted or modified for my use. I have attributed where appropriate and some of that code may be covered under other licenses or copyrights and subject to various terms and conditions.

These are intended for personal use only. To the extent applicable, any original work herein is:

Copyright 2018 by James McClanahan and made available under the terms of The MIT License.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
